What is your favorite fruit?
If you could time travel, what would you do?
Have you ever had bad sun burn?
Who is your favorite character?
Have you ever changed a tire?
Do you have nice handwriting?
If you could have any kind of pet, what would you choose?
Have you ever gotten stitches?
Which do you like better, book or eBook?
What is your favorite comedy?
If you could learn any language, what would you choose?
Do you like roller coasters?
Which do you like better, city or country?
Where did you get your name?
Have you ever been arrested?
Have you ever fainted?
Are you friends with more men or women?
How many pairs of shoes do you own?
Where have you traveled?
Which do you like better, pancakes or waffles?
Which do you like better, cardio or weightlifting?
What is your favorite drink?
Have you ever cheated on a test?
Which do you like better, black socks or white socks?
Have you ever eaten food from the trash?
What is your favorite holiday?
Have you ever been in a talent show?
Do you have pets?
Do you have family in another country?
What is the worst movie you've seen?
What are your favorite songs?
Where is the furthest you've driven?
Have you ever ironed clothes?
What is the scarest animal you've seen in the wild?
What is your favorite Disney movie?
Do you like flying?
If you had to eat just one thing for the rest of your life, what would you choose?
If you could play any instrument, what would you choose?
Which do you like better, ninjas or pirates?
Have you ever been to a zoo?
Which do you like better, beer or wine?
What is your first memory?
What is your favorite TV show?
Do you like your job?
What is your favorite clothing brand?
What is your favorite sandwich?
Do you know any jokes?
Have you ever had to run for your life?
Where do you see yourself in ten years?
What is the longest you've been awake?
Which do you like better, TV or movies?
When is your birthday?
Which do you like better, straight or curly?
What is your favorite flavor of ice cream?
Have you ever mowed a lawn?
Have you ever been to a planetarium?
Do you like bugs?
Have you ever been on TV?
Where is you favorite place to eat?
Have you ever been to South America?
Have you ever bungee jumped?
If you had to become an animal, what would you choose?
Which do you like better, dogs or cats?
Have you ever been stopped by the police?
Have you ever eaten sushi?
Which do you like better, sweet or salty?
What is your favorite lunch meal?
Which do you like better, pens or pencils?
What is your favorite sport?
If you could change genders for a day, would you?
Where is the furthest you've traveled?
What are your favorite albums?
Where did you go to school?
Have you ever been a vegetarian?
Have you ever been to Asia?
What are your favorite ice cream toppings?
Have you ever dyed your hair?
Which do you like better, rain or snow?
Which do you like better, coffee or tea?
Have you ever cut your own hair?
Which do you like better, Microsoft or Apple?
Do you like ice in your drinks?
Have you ever dined and dashed?
Have you ever been surfing?
If you had to change your name, what would you choose?
Have you ever ran in a race?
Have you ever slept outside?
Which do you like better, shop online or shop offline?
Which do you like better, morning or night?
How many books did you read last year?
If you could have a superpower, what would you choose?
Have you ever broken a bone?
Do you have any pet peeves?
How many children do you want?
If you didn't need sleep, what would you do?
Do you like the beach?
What are your favorite hot dog toppings?
Do you have any allergies?
Have you ever changed a diaper?
Have you ever burnt your hair?
Do you like to dance?
Have you ever been done karaoke?
What is your favorite hair color?
Can you play an instrument?
Have you ever been in a fight?
If you had to live somewhere else, what would you choose?
What is your favorite board game?
Who do you most resemble?
What is your favorite memory?
What is your least favorite chore?
What is your favorite cheese?
Have you ever been scuba diving?
Have you ever been horseback riding?
Have you ever sewed?
Which do you like better, long hair or short hair?
Have you ever been in a tree house?
which do you like better, being a passenger or driver?
Which do you like better, Star Wars or Star Trek?
Have you ever cut someone else's hair?
Where are you originally from?
What is your favorite month?
What do you do as excerise?
Which do you like better, mountains or oceans?
If you could become invisible, what would you do?
What is your favorite video game?
which do you like better, calls or texts?
Do you have any tattoos or piercings?
Have you ever been to Africa?
Which do you like better, chocolate or vanilla?
Do you have any siblings?
Which do you like better, Coke or Pepsi?
What do you always buy at the grocery store?
Have you ever been to a Renaissance fair?
What is your favorite fast food meal?
What is your favorite school subject?
If you won the lottery, what would you buy?
Which do you like better, cars or trucks?
What is your favorite cereal?
Have you ever been electrocuted?
What is your size shoe?
What type of music are you into?
Which do you like better, comedy or drama?
Have you ever been to a football game?
What is your favorite breakfast meal?
Have you ever been to Comic-con?
Which do you like better, cake or pie?
What is your favorite candy?
If you could meet anyone, who would you choose?
What do you fear?
What is your favorite eye color?
If you had to swap lives with a character, who would you choose?
What was your major in school?
What is your favorite dessert?
Have you ever been hunting?
Which do you like better, shower or bath?
Which do you like better, Google or Apple?
Have you ever seen a ghost?
What do you do to make money?
Have you ever shoplifted?
What is your favorite color to wear?
Have you ever jumped out of a plane?
Have you ever been slapped?
What is your favorite season?
What is your favorite color?
Do you have any nicknames?
What is your favorite food to cook?
What is your favorite vacation?
Which do you like better, curtains or blinds?
Have you ever ridden a motorcycle?
Do you swear often?
Have you ever been in a play?
Do you keep your things organized?
What are your favorite books?
Have you ever been tanning?
Do you have a temper?
Which do you like better, hot or cold?
Have you ever been skiing?
What was your worst injury?
Have you ever shot a gun?
Have you ever been to a farm?
What is you favorite snack?
What is the strangest thing you've eaten?
If you had to swap lives with someone famous, who would you choose?
Have you ever hitchhiked?
What are your favorite movies?
Have you ever been water skiing?
What is your favorite dinner meal?
